				A strange event
In 1967, a Cambridge university Ph.D. student named Locelyn Bell found something
strange in her radio Astronomy Data. A very faint blip coming from one part of the sky that repeated
every 1.3 seconds with incredible precision. It was so uniform that Bell and her supervison, Anthony
Hewish, nicknamed their discovery LGM-1 for Little Green Men. They figured out it wasn't really a
signal from Alein civilization but how else to explain such a astoundinly regular signal from space.
				
				A Supernova
In the 1930s, astronomers Volta Badda and Fritz Zwicky were searching for an explanation for
supernova which is a stupendous explotion that makes the death of some stars and which can for
a little while at least outshine the entire galaxy. When the subatomic particle called the neutron
was discovered in 1932, Badda and Zwichy realized it could solve their problem. They suggested when 
old star runs out of fuel, it rapidly collapsesunder its own gravity. The star's core suddenly
transforms into a super dense ball of neutrons, and the outer layers of the star bounces in a massive
explosion of light and energy, a supernova. The dense core that remains behind, dubs a neutron star,
would have the mass of two or three suns squeezed down into the size of a large city. 
				
				A theoritical explation
Until the 1960's, neutron starts were assumed to be too dim to be seen by a telescope. But in 1960's,
astronomers realized that when a star suddenly collapses like this, two interesting things can happen.
Stars typically rotate once every few days. The law of conservation of angular momentum says, that when 
a star collapses the rotation speeds up. 
{
Why? w1 * l1 = w2 * l2.
Considering, l = (mr^2 / g) where g is the radius of gyration (a constant).
We have, w1 * (mr1^2 / g) = w2 * (mr2^2 / g)
       => w2 = w1 * ( r1 / r2 )^2.
}
Now, collapsed star has r2 << r1 which means its angular momentum increases by a large factor.
So, a neutron star can be spinning anything from a time period of 1 second to tens or even hundereds
seconds. Also, like earth, a star has its own magnetic field and when it collapses, it takes its 
magnetic fields with it. This creates incredibly intense magnetic fields. Charged particles in a 
super-hot plasma surrounding a neutron star, would get funneled towards the stars magnetic poles
and shot out into space as two intense beams. Put these two ideas together, and a neutron star
becomes a bit like a lighthouse, rapidly spinning in space, flashing its energy beam accross the universe.
And suddenly the signal that Bell and Hewish found with their radio telescope made sense. Regular
pulses they saw with beams of a spinning neutron star sweeping past the Earth every 1.3 seconds.
When they and the other astronomers looked around the sky, they found more spinning neutron stars.
Some of it were slower and some were faster. They called them Pulsars.